---
title: "The Science of Sustainability: An Inter-organizational Approach to the Latin American Network"
collection: talks
type: "SUNBELT 2023"
permalink: /talks/2023-06-28-talk1
venue: "International Network for Social Network Analysis"
date: 2023-06-28
location: "Portland, US"
---

In the context of the Anthropocene, sustainability science has emerged as the scientific community's response to addressing the unsustainability of our societal model. While it is a long-standing conceptual framework, sustainability science has become the lingua franca for transdisciplinary approaches to issues ranging from climate science to applied econometrics. This exploratory presentation delves into sustainability science by examining its configuration across three decades of scientific production. How can we identify the scientific network of sustainability science using secondary data and topic modeling? What language usage characterizes the configuration of sustainability science? What do experts and scholars consider the field's most important topics? Have these topics evolved over time?
Given the heterogeneity of nationalities, disciplines, and methods that shape the field, we assess language usage in 2.5 million academic publications on sustainability science debates. We employ both supervised and unsupervised text modeling methods to identify the field's lexicon and linguistic topology. Additionally, we evaluate disciplinary expertise and publication dates as covariates for semantic analysis using a comparative set of structural topic models (STM).
